Projmake Mode For Emacs
=======================

What is It?
-----------

### TLDR

This mode builds runs the build system for your projects every time
you save and based on the errors and warnings generated by that system
highlights them in your open buffers.

### Long version

This mode uses your project's build system to build your project and
highlight errors in your open source buffers each time you save a file
under the project directory. If you are familiar with Flymake Mode,
then this is a project oriented version of flymake mode that correctly
handles complex projects, includes, etc and highlights every time you
save. If you are not familiar with Flymake Mode then read on.

Your project already has a well designed build system where one
command builds the entire thing, correctly managing all the includes,
dependencies, etc. If it does not have it already then fix that
problem right now. I will wait here ..... OK, continuing. This mode
takes that build system and leverages it to do syntax and error
checking. Basically, it builds your project every time you save and
highlights errors and warnings generated in your open buffers.

Functionality and Features
--------------------------

* Each time a file is saved a build is started silently in the
  background.

* When the build is finished error lines are highlighted in your open
  buffers with the details of the error messages.

* When starting a build of a particular project, either a possible
  previous live build of the same project is interrupted first or a
  new build is queued to start after the current one finishes. That is
  behaviour is configurable by you, the user.

* A project configuration file specifies the commands required to
  build a project.

* Multiple projects can be loaded into projmake mode and can be built
  as changes in the project occur.


Download
--------

You can get this mode in its current form from
[github](http://github.com/ericbmerritt/projmake-mode) or, even
easier, from [Marmalade](http://marmalade-repo.org).

Setup
------

The easiest way to set things up is to get this package from
Marmalade. However, if you are setting it up manually just add the
elisp directory to your build path.

    (add-to-list 'load-path (file-truename "path-to-the-el-files"))

to your ~/.emacs. You’ll probably also want to start the mode
automatically by adding

    (require 'projmake-mode)

to you .emacs configuration and then doing:

    (defun my-mode-hook ()
        (projmake-mode)
        (projmake-search-load-project))

    (add-hook '<mode>-mode-hook 'my-mode-hook)


to your Emacs init file for mode/file-type file type for which you
want to enable projmake. Once the mode is activated,
you should see the `Projmake` indicator on the mode line.

Using the Mode
--------------

Typically projects are built (or compiled) using a tool like make, but
the details vary. Projmake natively supports make and rebar based
build systems. You can trivially add addition build systems by
modifying the 'projmake-project-descs' customization. To automatically
search for and load a project do the following in to load on your
major mode load hooks.

    (projmake-search-for-dominating)


### Manually describing a project

For those projects that are not automatically discoverable you can add
a manual mode. The projmake mode will need a project configuration file to
know how to build your project. A project configuration file basically
contains an Emacs Lisp expression calling a function named projmake
that returns a project object. A simple example of a project
configuration file would be the (projmake) file used with smlbot:

    (projmake
     :name  "SML-Bot"
     :shell "nice -n5 make all")

The projmake function takes a number of keyword arguments:

name
: specifies the name of the project. This can be any expression that
  evaluates to a string or to a nullary function that returns a
  string.

shell
: specifies a shell command to execute. This can be any expression
  that evaluates to a string, a list of strings, or to a nullary
  function returning a list of strings.

All of the keyword arguments, except :shell, are optional and can be
left out.

Note the use of the nice command above. It means that background build
process is given a lower priority by the system process
scheduler. Assuming your machine has enough memory, using nice ensures
that your computer remains responsive. (You probably won’t even notice
when a build is started.)

### Manually Adding The projmake file

Once you have written a project file for projmake mode. Use the
projmake-add-project command to load the project file for projmake
mode.

### Automatically Adding the projmake file

Its also possible to load the mode automatically. By calling
projmake-add-project. This will load up the project manually into the
system.

After the project file has been loaded and projmake mode activated,
each time you save a file in Emacs, the projmake mode tries to build
your project.

Seeing The Build Output
-----------------------

Projmake only puts markers on buffers when build errors
happen. However, sometimes the build process itself fails, or on
parsable error information for files in open buffers are
presented. When this happens you sometimes what to see the build
output. You can do that by toggling the build output on (there will be
one buffer per project) with:

    M-x projmake-toggle-kill-build-buffer

This will allow the output from the lastest build to be always
available in a buffer. However, it does not bring that buffer to the
front.
